Hi, this is my 611 Data Science Project. More to come.

Overall Analysis:

Dataset:
Original dataset is downloaded from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/saife245/english-premier-league.
The original data contain 20 years of EPL(English Premier League) data. I take data started from 09-10 season as they started to have a bet ratio from gambling company. After some data cleaning(Code please see the data_cleaning.R inside the source_data folder), I create a more compact dataset which includes many variables I think is relevant with the result of a game (detailed description is in the folder of source_data, called data_description.txt).

Oct 24:
Cleaned the EPL dataset. Create two figures: One is the home team average goals; the other is the bet ratio for home team winning games.
Cleaned datasets are under the source_data; two figures can be generated by using the Makefile.

Nov 27:
I want to have a classification model that predicts the probability of each outcome(hometeam win, draw, and awayteam win). This model is probably a deep learning model or random forest. 09-19 seasons are used as training set and 20-22 seasons are used as test set. 5-fold cross validation on training and data splitting in cross validation is random. 

Gambling strategy: put 10 dollars in every game in the test set. Have a linear optimizer for optimizing the summation of predicted_probability of outcome i*bet_ratio for outcome i. if the results of the optimizer is bigger than 1.5, which means the expected gain from betting is 50%, then I bet 10 dollars on that game.